```yaml
title: Iconify in CSS
wip: true
```

# How to use Iconify in CSS

`include notices/css`

If you are migrating from font, you might be used to adding icons by adding pseudo elements to stylesheet, something like this:

```css
.whatever:after {
	content: '\f015';
	font-family: FontAwesome;
}
```

It can be done with Iconify too, but it is a bit harder and not recommended.

Iconify API can generate background images that you can use in stylesheet. You can use it as content for pseudo elements or as background images:

```css
/* SVG as pseudo element's content */
.some-item:after {
	content: url('https://api.iconify.design/fa-solid/home.svg?color=%23ba3329&height=16');
}

/* SVG as pseudo element's background image */
.another-item:after {
	content: '';
	width: 1em;
	height: 1em;
	display: inline-block;
	background: url('https://api.iconify.design/fa-solid/home.svg?color=%23ba3329')
		no-repeat center center / contain;
}

/* SVG as background image */
.third-item {
	background: url('https://api.iconify.design/fa-solid/home.svg?color=%23ba3329')
		no-repeat center center / contain;
}
```

However, there are several issues:

- SVG as pseudo element content cannot inherit color from parent element. That is not an issue for colored images, but it is an issue for monotone images.
- If you are using image as pseudo element's content (see examples above), you must specify width or height.
- Every image will be loaded separately. That increases number of HTTP(S) requests and increases page loading time. Try to avoid using background images.

## Syntax

Each method uses SVG URL.

Syntax for SVG URL is simple:

1. `[str]url('https://api.iconify.design/`
2. icon set prefix, such as `[str]fa-solid` in an example above
3. `[str]/`
4. icon name, such as `[str]home` in an example above
5. `[str].svg`
6. optional parameters, such as `[attr]color` or `[attr]height`: `[str]?color=red`
7. `[str]')`

```raw
url('<span class="hljs-string">https://api.iconify.design/fa-solid/home.svg?color=red</span>')
```

## Color

One downside of using SVG as external resource is it cannot inherit color from parent element.

This example shows 3 monotone icons, one is used as DOM element, one as pseudo element's content, one as background:

```yaml
src: common/css-demo1.html
title: 'HTML:'
css: common/css-demo1.scss
cssTitle: 'Stylesheet:'
demo: true
demoTitle: 'Demo:'
class: css-demo1
```

To change color add parameter `[attr]color` to icon URL:

```css
.pseudo-test:after {
	content: url('https://api.iconify.design/fa-solid/home.svg?height=16&color=%23ba3329');
}
```

This applies only to monotone icons. Icons that have hardcoded palette don't need `[attr]color` attribute.

In URLs character `[str]"#"` must be encoded, so replace `[str]"#"` with `[str]"%23"`. In example above, color value is `[str]"#ba3329"`.

## Dimensions

You can also specify dimensions to SVG URL as parameters. It is pointless if you are using `[prop]background-size` to resize background (see `[str]"/ contain"` part of code in examples above), but it is needed for using SVG as pseudo element's content.

To specify custom dimensions add width and/or height parameters:

```raw
https://api.iconify.design/fa-solid/home.svg?width=24&height=24
```

If you don't specify units, API assumes its pixels.

If you specify only one size attribute, other attribute is calculated using width/height ratio of icon. For example, if original icon is 512x1024, setting `[prop]?height=16` will result in `[attr]width="8"`.

There is special keyword auto that sets dimensions to original dimensions of icon:

```raw
https://api.iconify.design/fa-solid/home.svg?height=auto
```

No need to set both width and height to `[str]auto`, one parameter is enough (see above about width/height ratio).

## Transformations

You can transform SVG generated by Iconify API, same as with placeholder elements.

Possible transformations:

- Rotations: 90°, 180°, 270°
- Horizontal and vertical flip

### Rotating background {#rotate}

To rotate icon add `[prop]rotate` parameter. Value can be in degrees: `[attr]rotate=90deg` or as numbers: `[attr]rotate=1` (where 1 = 90deg, 2 = 180deg, 3 = 270deg).

All transformations are done using SVG transforms, not CSS.

```yaml
src: common/css-rotation.html
title: 'HTML:'
css: common/css-rotation.scss
cssTitle: 'Stylesheet:'
demo: true
demoTitle: 'Demo:'
class: css-rotation
```

### Flipping background {#flip}

To flip icon add `[prop]flip` parameter. Value is `[str]horizontal` or `[str]vertical`. If you want both, use `[str]horizontal,vertical` or rotate icon by 180 degrees.

All transformations are done using SVG transforms, not CSS.

```yaml
src: common/css-flip.html
title: 'HTML:'
css: common/css-flip.scss
cssTitle: 'Stylesheet:'
demo: true
demoTitle: 'Demo:'
class: css-flip
```

You can use both rotation and flip on icon. Icon is flipped first, then rotated.
